                            HiRISE hical Appication
			      September 15, 2009
                              $Revision: 1.2 $


Calibrating HiRISE image data is still currently undergoing active development 
due to the complex nature of the instrument and its operating conditions.  As 
such, the ISIS HiRISE calibration program, hicalbeta, is also evolving.  In 
order to continue improvements to HiRISE calibration whilst providing a stable, 
best order calibration program, the hical program will be a snapshot of the 
hicalbeta application.  hicalbeta is also distributed with each ISIS release so 
both are simultaneously available. 

The hical program that existed prior to this event has completely removed and 
will no longer be available.  These periodic snapshots of hicalbeta will 
replace existing versions of hical from henceforth and until further notice.

We will continue to actively develop hicalbeta and periodically, when deemed 
appropriate by the HiRISE team and ISIS Development team, generate a hicalbeta 
snapshot creating a new version of hical.  The file, HISTORY, will contain a 
log of these events and list files that are affected.

This action has been taken in order to minimize confusion and provide a stable 
HiRISE calibration resource (program).  Other applications that are affected 
by this action are:

hiclean
hiclean2
hipical

The three above applications have been completely removed from the ISIS system 
as of release 3.1.21.  They will no longer be maintained or distributed from 
this time forward.  All HiRISE users should use hical.  hicalbeta should be 
used ONLY at your own risk!

The steps to make a hicalbeta clone are:

1)  Check out the hical application from the CVS repository
2)  Execute the make file to create the snapshot as such:
          make -f Makefile.snapshot snapshot clean
3)  Run a check against what has changed to see if anything new needs to be
    added.  This is done using the cvs command:
          cvs3 -nq update
    Anything with a ? in front of the name needs to be determined if it should 
    be added to the hical respository.  If so add it with 'cvs3 add <file>'.
4)  Commit all changes to CVS with:
          cvs3 commit -m "New hical snapshot"

5)  Now as isis3mgr, you must update/copy assets/hical.XXXX.conf to 
    $ISIS3DATA/mro/calibration ensuring the 'XXXX' is exactly what the last 
    'XXXX' in hicalbeta.XXXX.conf is.  This makes it consistant with hicalbeta.
6)  Then inspect $ISIS3DATA/mro/calibration/matrices/beta for new files or 
    files with higher version numbers and copy them to
    $ISIS3DATA/mro/calibration/matrices.  Ensure that any of files that have
    'hicalbeta' in the name are converted to 'hical' as this is what the
    snapshot process will rename.

7)  Now rerun the app tests and update accordingly.  This will almost always 
    require updates to the truth files.  They should be consistant with any 
    hicalbeta updates.
8)  Update the HISTORY file with changes.

At this point hical and hicalbeta should produce consistant results.
